This video we're talking about Prime and composite numbers and we're trying to figure out which of the
numbers we've been given are prime numbers and which ones are composite numbers.
Numbers are either prime or composite.
They can't be both.
So what is a prime number.
What is a composite number.
Well prime number is a number which is evenly divisible by only one and itself.
In other words there is no number besides one and the number itself that will go evenly into the number
we've been given.
So if we look at this first example three we know that one will go into three because three divided
by one is three.
That goes and evenly we get a whole number answer.
We also know that three is a factor of three because three goes into three evenly one time we had a
whole number.
Answer When we say three divided by three we get one.
So we know that one goes into three and we know that three goes into three.
But there are no other numbers that go evenly into three.
If we try to divide three by any number that's larger than three we're going to get a decimal answer.
And if we try to divide 3 by a number between its factors for example try to divide three by two.
We're going to get a decimal answer When we're talking about prime numbers and composite numbers.
We don't consider numbers that are zero or negative.
We're only talking about positive whole numbers.
So the only factors of 3 are 1 and 3 which means that 3 is a prime number.
What about 5.
Well we know one goes into five evenly one will always go into every number evenly.
So that's a given.
We know that 5 will go into five evenly right.
The number itself is always going to go in evenly.
But what about any other numbers.
Well the only numbers we have to consider are numbers greater than 5 and those are of course always
going to give us a decimal answer and trying to divide 5 by any number between its factors here two
three and four will give us a decimal answer.
So there are no positive whole numbers that will go evenly into five other than 1 in 5 which means that
5 is also a prime number.
What about 35.
Well we know that one is going to go on evenly and we know that 35 is going to go and evenly that's
always going to be the case.
The number one and the number itself.
But what about any values between 1 and 35.
Well we know that 5 goes into 35 evenly.
In fact it goes in seven times which means that both 5 and 7 go into 35 evenly.
So because there are factors of 35 other than 1 and 35 other than 1 and the number itself we call this
a composite number which means that the number has factors other than one in itself that divide evenly
into the number.